content/rac-bagit-spec.md, before:

---
layout: page
title:  Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification
permalink: /rac-bagit-spec/
hide: true
---

Version 1.6 (2019-06-20)

This page describes the Rockefeller Archive Center's BagIt specification, developed with the goal of facilitating consistently structured bags - or packages - of digital records which can be programatically validated and verified.

Donor organizations are responsible for creating bags which comply to this specification and transferring them via agreed-upon protocols and schedules. To assist donors in meeting these requirements, we have provided [example Python scripts](/scripts/) to create and validate bags. These scripts are for demonstration purposes only, and are not intended to be used in production. Other libraries for this specification are available in languages including [Java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java), [Python](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-python), [PHP](https://github.com/scholarslab/BatItPHP) and [Ruby](https://github.com/topr/bagit).

## Specification
1.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags conform to the [BagIt packaging specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kunze-bagit-14 "BagIt Specification").
2.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags may be:
    1.  serialized (single .zip, .tar or .tar.gz file)
    2.  un-serialized
3.  All bags must valid according to the organization's BagIt Profile.

## RAC BagIt Structure
This section includes a simple example of a Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification-compliant bag. Although the Rockefeller Archive Center accepts both serialized and un-serialized bags, this example specifies an unserialized bag.

```
<RAC-BAG-ID>/
    | bagit.txt
    | manifest-md5.txt
    | bag-info.txt
    \--- data/
          | [payload files]
          | metadata.json
```

### Description

#### RAC-BAG-ID
The name of the root directory of the bag. This directory name may include Unicode characters and characters in the extended character set (128–255), except for the following reserved characters:

*   `<` (less than)
*   `>` (greater than)
*   `:` (colon)
*   `"` (double quote)
*   `/` (forward slash)
*   `\` (backslash)
*   `|` (vertical bar or pipe)
*   `?` (question mark)
*   `*` (asterisk)

##### bagit.txt
As required in the BagIt spec. Includes BagIt version and tag file character encoding.

```
BagIt-Version: 0.97
Tag-File-Character-Encoding: UTF-8
```

##### manifest-md5.txt
This is a required element from the BagIt spec that contains a checksum for every item included in the bag's payload. For this example we have chosen `md5`, but `sha256` is also acceptable.

##### bag-info.txt
The Rockefeller Archive Center requires some of the below fields in our specification, and some are reserved BagIt fields as indicated in the BagIt Specification. For more details on the content, requirements, and usage of each field, please see the [Bag-Info Field Specification](#bag-info-field-specifications) section below. The RAC will index metadata from `bag-info.txt` as structured data. Please use standardized names and avoid the use of all acronyms as separate stakeholders may share the same acronyms but they may mean different things.

```
Source-Organization
External-Identifier
Internal-Sender-Description
Title
Date-Start
Date-End
Record-Creators
Record-Type
Language
Bagging-Date
Bag-Count
Bag-Group-Identifier
Payload-Oxum
BagIt-Profile-Identifier
```

##### data
Required directory for payload items. This directory may be serialized as a single file (for example a ZIP file), or un-serialized as a number of files and subdirectories.

##### metadata.json
Valid JSON or JSON-LD file that includes metadata elements included in bag-info.txt as well as any additional elements donors wish to provide to the RAC. This file is optional.

---

## Bag-Info Field Specifications

### Source-Organization

*   **Definition:** The organization responsible for sending the content.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to the Rockefeller Archive Center about the organization sending the records.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Asian Cultural Council"
    *   "Ford Foundation"
    *   "Social Science Research Council"

### External-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier applied to each group of records composed of characters, numbers or letters, or a combination thereof, that uniquely identify the record within a given domain.
*   **Purpose:** Ensures that records can be uniquely identified within the Rockefeller Archive Center's systems during archival processes.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "OyGpXmSFVkCpds7i4gRv"
    *   "Grant2561"

### Internal-Sender-Description

*   **Definition:** A prose description of the nature and contents of the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Aids user discovery by providing description about the content and context of records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual reports discussing the accomplishments and major strategic initiatives of the Ford Foundation."
    *   "Board reports from all Russell Sage Foundation board meetings."

### Title

*   **Definition:** The title of a group of records. Do not include dates in the title element. This should not be a description of the type of materials, but instead a declarative title for all of the records in the bag.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual Reports"
    *   "Grant Records"

### Date-Start

*   **Definition:** The earliest date on which records in the bag were created.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1995-01-01"
    *   "2002"

### Date-End

*   **Definition:** The latest date on which records in the transfer were created. Use only if this value differs from `Date-Start`.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required for date ranges
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1997-12-31"

### Record-Creators

*   **Definition:** Identifies the individuals, organizations or departments that created the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Provides evidence and context for records by identifying the creator of the record and supports user search, allowing information to be filtered.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Rockefeller Brothers Fund Communications Office"
    *   "Shah, Rajiv"

### Record-Type

*   **Definition:** The broad category into which the records fall.
*   **Purpose:** Allows records to be staged appropriately for archival processes and facilitates the appropriate application of embargo periods, which vary by record type.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Profile](/scripts) for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "annual reports"
    *   "grant records"

### Languages

*   **Definition:** The natural language(s) in which the materials are written.
*   **Purpose:** Assists user evaluation of relevance and facilitates machine translation.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 639-2: Codes for the Representation of Names of Languages_. If materials have no language, please use "nil"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "eng"
    *   "spa"

### Bagging-Date

*   **Definition:** Date that the content was prepared for delivery.
*   **Puropose:** Provides the date the bag was created to ensure authenticity.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "2016-04-24"

### Bag-Count

*   **Definition:** Two numbers separated by 'of', in particular, 'N of T', where T is the total number of bags in a group of bags and N is the ordinal number within the group; if T is not known, specify it as '?' (question mark).
*   **Purpose:** Allows donors to split large bags into multiple parts that can be reassembled later.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1 of 2"
    *   "4 of 4"
    *   "3 of ?"

### Bag-Group-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier for the entire set of bags to which this bag belongs.
*   **Purpose:** Provide an identifier to logically group multi-bag transfers.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "xOmy5"
    *   "AnnualReports"
    *   "Group1"

### Payload-Oxum

*   **Definition:** The "octetstream sum" of the payload, namely, a two-part number of the form `OctetCount.StreamCount`, where OctetCount is the total number of octets (8-bit bytes) across all payload file content and StreamCount is the total number of payload files. Payload-Oxum should be included in `bag-info.txt` if at all possible.
*   **Purpose:** Payload-Oxum is intended for machine consumption.
*   **Data type:** OctetCount.StreamCount
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "279164409832.1198"

### BagIt-Profile-Identifier

*   **Definition:** An HTTP URI that identifies the BagIt Profile.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled, temporary URL: "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/HaSistrunk/65d59e558c436b9d934d98fd8fb0f575/raw/097f2c96c27b1e67a173c6c390458a981ffdbd83/organizational-bag-profile.json"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "https://standards.rockarch.org/bagit/organizational-bag-profile.json"
    *   "http://rockarch.org/bagitprofiles/bag-profile.json"

Commit message:

Add explanation of serialized versus unserialized.

content/rac-bagit-spec.md, after:

---
layout: page
title:  Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification
permalink: /rac-bagit-spec/
hide: true
---

Version 1.6 (2019-06-20)

This page describes the Rockefeller Archive Center's BagIt specification, developed with the goal of facilitating consistently structured bags - or packages - of digital records which can be programatically validated and verified.

Donor organizations are responsible for creating bags which comply to this specification and transferring them via agreed-upon protocols and schedules. To assist donors in meeting these requirements, we have provided [example Python scripts](/scripts/) to create and validate bags. These scripts are for demonstration purposes only, and are not intended to be used in production. Other libraries for this specification are available in languages including [Java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java), [Python](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-python), [PHP](https://github.com/scholarslab/BatItPHP) and [Ruby](https://github.com/topr/bagit).

## Specification
1.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags conform to the [BagIt packaging specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kunze-bagit-14 "BagIt Specification").
2.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags may be:
    1.  serialized (single .zip, .tar or .tar.gz file)
    2.  un-serialized (a directory containing multiple files. **unserialized bags must be transferred one at a time, not in batches**)
3.  All bags must valid according to the organization's BagIt Profile.

## RAC BagIt Structure
This section includes a simple example of a Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification-compliant bag. Although the Rockefeller Archive Center accepts both serialized and un-serialized bags, this example specifies an unserialized bag.

```
<RAC-BAG-ID>/
    | bagit.txt
    | manifest-md5.txt
    | bag-info.txt
    \--- data/
          | [payload files]
          | metadata.json
```

### Description

#### RAC-BAG-ID
The name of the root directory of the bag. This directory name may include Unicode characters and characters in the extended character set (128–255), except for the following reserved characters:

*   `<` (less than)
*   `>` (greater than)
*   `:` (colon)
*   `"` (double quote)
*   `/` (forward slash)
*   `\` (backslash)
*   `|` (vertical bar or pipe)
*   `?` (question mark)
*   `*` (asterisk)

##### bagit.txt
As required in the BagIt spec. Includes BagIt version and tag file character encoding.

```
BagIt-Version: 0.97
Tag-File-Character-Encoding: UTF-8
```

##### manifest-md5.txt
This is a required element from the BagIt spec that contains a checksum for every item included in the bag's payload. For this example we have chosen `md5`, but `sha256` is also acceptable.

##### bag-info.txt
The Rockefeller Archive Center requires some of the below fields in our specification, and some are reserved BagIt fields as indicated in the BagIt Specification. For more details on the content, requirements, and usage of each field, please see the [Bag-Info Field Specification](#bag-info-field-specifications) section below. The RAC will index metadata from `bag-info.txt` as structured data. Please use standardized names and avoid the use of all acronyms as separate stakeholders may share the same acronyms but they may mean different things.

```
Source-Organization
External-Identifier
Internal-Sender-Description
Title
Date-Start
Date-End
Record-Creators
Record-Type
Language
Bagging-Date
Bag-Count
Bag-Group-Identifier
Payload-Oxum
BagIt-Profile-Identifier
```

##### data
Required directory for payload items. This directory may be serialized as a single file (for example a ZIP file), or un-serialized as a number of files and subdirectories.

##### metadata.json
Valid JSON or JSON-LD file that includes metadata elements included in bag-info.txt as well as any additional elements donors wish to provide to the RAC. This file is optional.

---

## Bag-Info Field Specifications

### Source-Organization

*   **Definition:** The organization responsible for sending the content.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to the Rockefeller Archive Center about the organization sending the records.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Asian Cultural Council"
    *   "Ford Foundation"
    *   "Social Science Research Council"

### External-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier applied to each group of records composed of characters, numbers or letters, or a combination thereof, that uniquely identify the record within a given domain.
*   **Purpose:** Ensures that records can be uniquely identified within the Rockefeller Archive Center's systems during archival processes.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "OyGpXmSFVkCpds7i4gRv"
    *   "Grant2561"

### Internal-Sender-Description

*   **Definition:** A prose description of the nature and contents of the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Aids user discovery by providing description about the content and context of records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual reports discussing the accomplishments and major strategic initiatives of the Ford Foundation."
    *   "Board reports from all Russell Sage Foundation board meetings."

### Title

*   **Definition:** The title of a group of records. Do not include dates in the title element. This should not be a description of the type of materials, but instead a declarative title for all of the records in the bag.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual Reports"
    *   "Grant Records"

### Date-Start

*   **Definition:** The earliest date on which records in the bag were created.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1995-01-01"
    *   "2002"

### Date-End

*   **Definition:** The latest date on which records in the transfer were created. Use only if this value differs from `Date-Start`.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required for date ranges
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1997-12-31"

### Record-Creators

*   **Definition:** Identifies the individuals, organizations or departments that created the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Provides evidence and context for records by identifying the creator of the record and supports user search, allowing information to be filtered.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Rockefeller Brothers Fund Communications Office"
    *   "Shah, Rajiv"

### Record-Type

*   **Definition:** The broad category into which the records fall.
*   **Purpose:** Allows records to be staged appropriately for archival processes and facilitates the appropriate application of embargo periods, which vary by record type.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Profile](/scripts) for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "annual reports"
    *   "grant records"

### Languages

*   **Definition:** The natural language(s) in which the materials are written.
*   **Purpose:** Assists user evaluation of relevance and facilitates machine translation.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 639-2: Codes for the Representation of Names of Languages_. If materials have no language, please use "nil"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "eng"
    *   "spa"

### Bagging-Date

*   **Definition:** Date that the content was prepared for delivery.
*   **Puropose:** Provides the date the bag was created to ensure authenticity.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "2016-04-24"

### Bag-Count

*   **Definition:** Two numbers separated by 'of', in particular, 'N of T', where T is the total number of bags in a group of bags and N is the ordinal number within the group; if T is not known, specify it as '?' (question mark).
*   **Purpose:** Allows donors to split large bags into multiple parts that can be reassembled later.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1 of 2"
    *   "4 of 4"
    *   "3 of ?"

### Bag-Group-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier for the entire set of bags to which this bag belongs.
*   **Purpose:** Provide an identifier to logically group multi-bag transfers.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "xOmy5"
    *   "AnnualReports"
    *   "Group1"

### Payload-Oxum

*   **Definition:** The "octetstream sum" of the payload, namely, a two-part number of the form `OctetCount.StreamCount`, where OctetCount is the total number of octets (8-bit bytes) across all payload file content and StreamCount is the total number of payload files. Payload-Oxum should be included in `bag-info.txt` if at all possible.
*   **Purpose:** Payload-Oxum is intended for machine consumption.
*   **Data type:** OctetCount.StreamCount
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "279164409832.1198"

### BagIt-Profile-Identifier

*   **Definition:** An HTTP URI that identifies the BagIt Profile.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled, temporary URL: "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/HaSistrunk/65d59e558c436b9d934d98fd8fb0f575/raw/097f2c96c27b1e67a173c6c390458a981ffdbd83/organizational-bag-profile.json"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "https://standards.rockarch.org/bagit/organizational-bag-profile.json"
    *   "http://rockarch.org/bagitprofiles/bag-profile.json"
