personas/communications-manager.md, before:

# Won Young Lin

_Communications Manager_

![persona image](img/won-young-lin.jpg)

## Background

Won Young Lin is 38 years old and is from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She lives outside the city and commutes to work in her car. She’s active and happily married, and has a young son who takes up much of her free time. She’s committed to her work, but prefers to not regularly work long hours because of her family life. Her parents immigrated to the United States and instilled in her a sense of civic duty, and she’s extremely proud to work for a nonprofit because she sees it as her way to give back to her community. Although Won is not primarily responsible for transfer of her organization’s records to the archive, she does have a voice in what records are sent, and what restrictions are placed on them.

## Goals and Motivations

Won wants to access to her organization’s records, even after transferring them to an archive. She believes that public access to her organization’s records is important for transparency’s sake. However, she’s also passionate about protecting her organization’s image. She wants to make a name for herself in the organization, and approving transfer of records that are damaging or embarrassing to the organization would hurt her standing.

## Needs

In order to meet her needs, Won needs access to any records that have been transferred to the archive. She often needs continued communication with archive staff to help facilitate access and use of her nonprofit’s materials. She needs to explicitly sign off on any records that are sent to the archive. She also likes to see some reporting back from the archive on how researchers are using their historical materials.

## Pain Points

Won struggles with her organization’s legal team, who are extremely risk averse and question the value of public access to historical records. She also doesn’t often have final say on what material the archive can publish online, so she has to act as an intermediary between multiple stakeholders. She gets frustrated when the archive doesn’t communicate new policies or changes in service back to her department. Currently, gaining access to material sent to the archive takes longer than she’d like.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Won is not shy with technology. She primarily uses a personal computer with Microsoft products at work, but her work applications are often older due to IT constraints. She owns a tablet and smartphone, and often sends work emails from both devices. She’s almost always connected due to her work. However, she doesn’t have much command line experience or experience working with Linux systems. Won’s organization contracts with a vendor for IT services, including desktop support, systems implementation and ongoing network security needs.

Commit message:

adds details on visually appealing content, fixes #55

personas/communications-manager.md, after:

# Won Young Lin

_Communications Manager_

![persona image](img/won-young-lin.jpg)

## Background

Won Young Lin is 38 years old and is from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She lives outside the city and commutes to work in her car. She’s active and happily married, and has a young son who takes up much of her free time. She’s committed to her work, but prefers to not regularly work long hours because of her family life. Her parents immigrated to the United States and instilled in her a sense of civic duty, and she’s extremely proud to work for a nonprofit because she sees it as her way to give back to her community. Although Won is not primarily responsible for transfer of her organization’s records to the archive, she does have a voice in what records are sent, and what restrictions are placed on them.

## Goals and Motivations

Won wants to access to her organization’s records, even after transferring them to an archive. She believes that public access to her organization’s records is important for transparency’s sake. However, she’s also passionate about protecting her organization’s image. She wants to make a name for herself in the organization, and approving transfer of records that are damaging or embarrassing to the organization would hurt her standing.

## Needs

In order to meet her needs, Won needs access to any records that have been transferred to the archive. In particular, she often needs to quickly locate visually appealing content for use in social media or promotional materials. She often needs continued communication with archive staff to help facilitate access and use of her nonprofit’s materials. She needs to explicitly sign off on any records that are sent to the archive. She also likes to see some reporting back from the archive on how researchers are using their historical materials.

## Pain Points

Won struggles with her organization’s legal team, who are extremely risk averse and question the value of public access to historical records. She also doesn’t often have final say on what material the archive can publish online, so she has to act as an intermediary between multiple stakeholders. She gets frustrated when the archive doesn’t communicate new policies or changes in service back to her department. Currently, gaining access to material sent to the archive takes longer than she’d like, and she finds the archive's search interface confusing and difficult to navigate.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Won is not shy with technology. She primarily uses a personal computer with Microsoft products at work, but her work applications are often older due to IT constraints. She owns a tablet and smartphone, and often sends work emails from both devices. She’s almost always connected due to her work. However, she doesn’t have much command line experience or experience working with Linux systems. Won’s organization contracts with a vendor for IT services, including desktop support, systems implementation and ongoing network security needs.
