personas/documentary-filmmaker.md, before:

# Ángel Reyes

_Documentary Filmmaker_

![persona image](img/angel-reyes.jpg)

## Background

Ángel is 33 years old and lives in Los Angeles, CA. They got their start as a production assistant and slowly worked their way up to directing documentary films. They're coming off their first documentary, which had modest success. Ángel has already started working on their second feature, which necessitates a lot of travel. They are betting most of their savings and industry capital on this film, so it will dominate their life for the next few years. Ángel is also deeply involved in their community and is a self-described Latinx social activist.

## Goals and Motivations

Ángel hopes to change the world with their documentaries, believing that film can be a powerful force to enact social change and improve society through connecting people to their history. As such, they are extremely passionate about their work. However, they are also on a tight budget and a deadline to get the film into post-production or risk missing the release window. Ángel often only needs to access a single document or photograph, but needs it as soon as possible. They're looking for that “a-ha” moment of discovery that can give their film extra impact.

## Needs

Ángel needs requested materials and information as fast as possible and would love to be able to see the material online before requesting copies for production. They're looking for quick reference responses from the archive with confirmation that the materials and information are what they need. Ángel is not interested in archival context or jargon because the document is a means to an end for them.

## Pain Points

They find the traditional archival research process tedious and time-consuming. There’s too much archival jargon, access and use statements are not clear, and the material isn’t accessible online. Ángel can’t travel on a limited budget, and would love to see materials before having to pay for high quality representations of them. Ángel also needs materials as quickly, and doesn’t like the long wait times for archival duplication. Sometimes they have trouble finding what they need because the description is either too minimal or inaccurate.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

They're very comfortable with technology and has spent a lot of time working in editing software. They almost exclusively use Macs for work, but are also very familiar with Photoshop and other creative editing tools. Ángel is almost never found without their Macbook. They don't work with the command line much, but are not scared of it.

Commit message:

add need for audiovisual transcripts

personas/documentary-filmmaker.md, after:

# Ángel Reyes

_Documentary Filmmaker_

![persona image](img/angel-reyes.jpg)

## Background

Ángel is 33 years old and lives in Los Angeles, CA. They got their start as a production assistant and slowly worked their way up to directing documentary films. They're coming off their first documentary, which had modest success. Ángel has already started working on their second feature, which necessitates a lot of travel. They are betting most of their savings and industry capital on this film, so it will dominate their life for the next few years. Ángel is also deeply involved in their community and is a self-described Latinx social activist.

## Goals and Motivations

Ángel hopes to change the world with their documentaries, believing that film can be a powerful force to enact social change and improve society through connecting people to their history. As such, they are extremely passionate about their work. However, they are also on a tight budget and a deadline to get the film into post-production or risk missing the release window. Ángel often only needs to access a single document or photograph, but needs it as soon as possible. They're looking for that “a-ha” moment of discovery that can give their film extra impact.

## Needs

Ángel needs requested materials and information as fast as possible and would love to be able to see the material online before requesting copies for production. They seek transcripts for audiovisual materials to be able to access and search for relavant content quickly. They're looking for quick reference responses from the archive with confirmation that the materials and information are what they need. Ángel is not interested in archival context or jargon because the archival record is a means to an end for them.

## Pain Points

They find the traditional archival research process tedious and time-consuming. There’s too much archival jargon, access and use statements are not clear, and the material isn’t accessible online. Ángel can’t travel on a limited budget, and would love to see materials before having to pay for high quality representations of them. Ángel also needs materials as quickly, and doesn’t like the long wait times for archival duplication. Sometimes they have trouble finding what they need because the description is either too minimal or inaccurate.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

They're very comfortable with technology and has spent a lot of time working in editing software. They almost exclusively use Macs for work, but are also very familiar with Photoshop and other creative editing tools. Ángel is almost never found without their Macbook. They don't work with the command line much, but are not scared of it.
