personas/graduate-student.md, before:

# Beatriz Oliveira

_Graduate Student_

![persona image](img/beatriz-oliviera.jpg)

## Background

Beatriz is a 26 year old Ph.D. candidate in Sociology at the Universidade de São Paulo in Brazil. She is currently in the 4th year of her studies, and her in-progress dissertation focuses on the use of language describing agricultural innovation in Latin America. She lives near campus in a shared apartment with other graduate students, and teaches part-time to help make ends meet. She regularly works long hours, researching and writing wherever and whenever she can find the time, which is often outside of regular business hours. Beatriz has been to many archives and is familiar with archival description, policies and procedures. She relies on grant funding in order to travel to archives and do onsite research.

## Goals and Motivations

Beatriz really wants to finish her dissertation so that she can get a job and have a livable income. She is also very concerned about raising her profile as an academic, so she is looking for opportunities to publish her work in scholarly journals or to present at academic conferences. However, she is concerned that other scholars working in the same field might find out about her work and steal her ideas before she can publish them, so she is also careful about how much she reveals about her work to others.

## Needs

Beatriz expects that archival discovery environments will have substantial advanced search functionality, which she will use to filter, sort, narrow and expand her search queries. Because she is focused on academic publication, she needs to generate and manage citations for primary source material from multiple archives. Her research topic requires that she use techniques such as text mining to examine large corpora of material as well as performing quantitatives analyses of raw data from records creators. She also needs interfaces that support multiple languages, because she can navigate faster through web pages in Portuguese. Given her unpredictable schedule and highly mobile lifestyle, she needs easy access to information at any time of the day and from many locations. When she visits archives, Beatriz needs to work efficiently in the reading room to maximize her use of time. This includes taking photos that she can review later as well as being able to identify and download already-digitized content in advance so that she doesn’t waste time looking at records she can access elsewhere. She needs to manage these digitized assets over a period of several years since her dissertation research will take some time to complete. After she's made an in-person visit to an archive, she often needs to follow up to verify specific pieces of information, including which records she's looked at, so she can keep track of citation information.

## Pain Points

Beatriz always feels like she’s rushing to meet deadlines. She is in a financially precarious position and spends a lot of time and energy trying to find grant funding so that she can devote more time to her research. Although she is proficient in English, having to speak or read in a language other than Portuguese is an additional cognitive load that slows her down. Her pet peeve is when others do not treat her as an expert in her subject area and instead patronize or micro-manage her. Beatriz has had to create multiple different accounts everywhere she has researched and these accounts are now becoming unmanageable. She would like to reduce her overall number of user accounts.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Because she is always on the go, Beatriz uses small and light devices. Her main computer is a Mac laptop which is several years old and running out of hard drive space because of all the photos of archival material she has stored on it. She backs up her laptop to several external hard drives but is worried about losing things. She also has an iPhone, but she cannot afford an international calling or data plan, so relies on unsecured or free wireless networks in order to access the internet. She uses a lot of applications and tools to help her manage her notes, citations and research photos.

Commit message:

tweaks language barriers and apps, fixes #58

personas/graduate-student.md, after:

# Beatriz Oliveira

_Graduate Student_

![persona image](img/beatriz-oliviera.jpg)

## Background

Beatriz is a 26 year old Ph.D. candidate in Sociology at the Universidade de São Paulo in Brazil. She is currently in the 4th year of her studies, and her in-progress dissertation focuses on the use of language describing agricultural innovation in Latin America. She lives near campus in a shared apartment with other graduate students, and teaches part-time to help make ends meet. She regularly works long hours, researching and writing wherever and whenever she can find the time, which is often outside of regular business hours. Beatriz has been to many archives and is familiar with archival description, policies and procedures. She relies on grant funding in order to travel to archives and do onsite research.

## Goals and Motivations

Beatriz really wants to finish her dissertation so that she can get a job and have a livable income. She is also very concerned about raising her profile as an academic, so she is looking for opportunities to publish her work in scholarly journals or to present at academic conferences. However, she is concerned that other scholars working in the same field might find out about her work and steal her ideas before she can publish them, so she is also careful about how much she reveals about her work to others.

## Needs

Beatriz expects that archival discovery environments will have substantial advanced search functionality, which she will use to filter, sort, narrow and expand her search queries. Because she is focused on academic publication, she needs to generate and manage citations for primary source material from multiple archives. Her research topic requires that she use techniques such as text mining to examine large corpora of material as well as performing quantitatives analyses of raw data from records creators. She also needs interfaces that support multiple languages, because she can navigate faster through web pages in Portuguese. Given her unpredictable schedule and highly mobile lifestyle, she needs easy access to information at any time of the day and from many locations. When she visits archives, Beatriz needs to work efficiently in the reading room to maximize her use of time. This includes taking photos that she can review later as well as being able to identify and download already-digitized content in advance so that she doesn’t waste time looking at records she can access elsewhere. She needs to manage these digitized assets over a period of several years since her dissertation research will take some time to complete. After she's made an in-person visit to an archive, she often needs to follow up to verify specific pieces of information, including which records she's looked at, so she can keep track of citation information.

## Pain Points

Beatriz always feels like she’s rushing to meet deadlines. She is in a financially precarious position and spends a lot of time and energy trying to find grant funding so that she can devote more time to her research. Although she can understand written English, she sometimes has trouble following conversations in English. Additionally, having to speak or read in a language other than Portuguese is an additional cognitive load that slows her research down. Her pet peeve is when others do not treat her as an expert in her subject area and instead patronize or micro-manage her. Beatriz has had to create multiple different accounts everywhere she has researched and these accounts are now becoming unmanageable. She would like to reduce her overall number of user accounts.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Because she is always on the go, Beatriz uses small and light devices. Her main computer is a Mac laptop which is several years old and running out of hard drive space because of all the photos of archival material she has stored on it. She backs up her laptop to several external hard drives but is worried about losing things. She also has an iPhone, but she cannot afford an international calling or data plan, so relies on unsecured or free wireless networks in order to access the internet. She uses a lot of applications and tools to help her manage her notes, citations and research photos. In addition, she uses translation apps on her laptop and phone to translate text in English to Portuguese.
