personas/personal-interest-researcher.md, before:

# Tony DeStefano

_Personal Interest Researcher_

![persona image](img/tony-destefano.jpg)

## Background

Tony is an 82 year old retired plumber from Cincinnati, Ohio. He is a widower, father of 4, and grandfather to 9 boisterous children. He has never visited an archive in person, but he has used sites like Ancestry.com and other resources available at his local library to look up information about his grandparents. Tony is a proud Italian-American and is active in his local community.

## Goals and Motivations

As the unofficial DeStefano family historian, Tony wants to find out about his family’s past so that he can tell stories about his family at their annual reunion. He heard a rumor that his grandfather worked for the Rockefellers, and wants to find out more. He’s not totally sure what he’s looking for but feels sure he’ll know it when he finds it.

## Needs

Tony expects to be able to easily search for and have direct access to archival content. Since he is unable to travel long distances because of his age and financial situation, he wants to be able to download interesting things. He would like to share downloaded files and/or links with his family via email or social media. Tony has age-induced visual impairment, so he often has a hard time reading text on a screen and relies on being able to zoom and resize text.

## Pain Points

Tony is easily overwhelmed by new technology and finds that it changes at a pace that is too fast for him to keep up with.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Tony is intimidated by technology. When he goes to the library, he looks for the card catalog rather than using the online catalog. He has a three-year old Windows PC that his daughter got for him and which he mostly uses for browsing the web, accessing email and social media through accounts set up for him by his nephew. He infrequently uses basic word processing applications, and he likes to save interesting images to his hard drive for later use. His nephew also helped him install the JAWS screen reader, and he has been learning to use this assistive technology to help him access content he has difficulty seeing on the screen.

Commit message:

add captioning and transcription needs, fixes #60

personas/personal-interest-researcher.md, after:

# Tony DeStefano

_Personal Interest Researcher_

![persona image](img/tony-destefano.jpg)

## Background

Tony is an 82 year old retired plumber from Cincinnati, Ohio. He is a widower, father of 4, and grandfather to 9 boisterous children. He has never visited an archive in person, but he has used sites like Ancestry.com and other resources available at his local library to look up information about his grandparents. Tony is a proud Italian-American and is active in his local community.

## Goals and Motivations

As the unofficial DeStefano family historian, Tony wants to find out about his family’s past so that he can tell stories about his family at their annual reunion. He heard a rumor that his grandfather worked for the Rockefellers, and wants to find out more. He’s not totally sure what he’s looking for but feels sure he’ll know it when he finds it.

## Needs

Tony expects to be able to easily search for and have direct access to archival content. Since he is unable to travel long distances because of his age and financial situation, he wants to be able to download interesting things. He would like to share downloaded files and/or links with his family via email or social media. Tony has age-induced visual impairment, so he often has a hard time reading text on a screen and relies on being able to zoom and resize text. He is also a little hard of hearing, so needs audiovisual content to be captioned or transcribed.

## Pain Points

Tony is easily overwhelmed by new technology and finds that it changes at a pace that is too fast for him to keep up with.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Tony is intimidated by technology. When he goes to the library, he looks for the card catalog rather than using the online catalog. He has a three-year old Windows PC that his daughter got for him and which he mostly uses for browsing the web, accessing email and social media through accounts set up for him by his nephew. He infrequently uses basic word processing applications, and he likes to save interesting images to his hard drive for later use. His nephew also helped him install the JAWS screen reader, and he has been learning to use this assistive technology to help him access content he has difficulty seeing on the screen.
