personas/public-services-librarian.md, before:

# Laura Kozlowski

_Public Services Librarian_

![persona image](img/laura-kozlowski.jpg)

## Background

Laura works as a public services librarian for special collections at a large academic library in California. In addition to running the reading room, she also coordinates exhibits, events and other outreach activities using primary source materials from her institution’s collections. In her mid 30’s, she is recently married and has a pet dog named Chico.

## Goals and Motivations

Laura is motivated by the needs of her patrons, and she loves to connect people with information. Although she likes answering people’s questions, she enjoys teaching them how to find the answer for themselves even more. She also wants to make sure that the privacy of her patrons is protected and that archival material in the reading room is not damaged or misplaced. In addition, she wants to create interesting exhibits and programming that will bring more researchers to visit the special collections. When material is restricted due to donor agreements, she wants to make sure those restrictions are enforced consistently and equitably.

## Needs

In order to meet her goals, Laura needs excellent search tools for archival material that explain - in a visual manner without large blocks of text - the scope, content, and extent of archival records so that researchers can find the answers to their questions. She wants researchers to be able to search the full text of documents and also to see the context of records creation and maintenance. Additionally, she’d like researchers to have direct access to digital content so that they can download and use those materials in their research, and she’d like researchers to be able to download citations information for archival material to improve the accuracy of citations. She’d also like to be able to restrict access to certain archival material due to donor agreements via password-protected user accounts or some other means.

## Pain Points

One of the biggest headaches for Laura is chasing down material that is inaccurately cited in publications. She also routinely finds that researchers underestimate the amount of time their research will take because they can’t tell how much material there is to look at. Although she is annoyed by researchers who don’t follow reading room rules, she thinks this is largely the result of unclear and confusing policies and procedures, and she wants to simplify these processes and procedures so that her institution’s staff doesn’t have to deal with the blowback.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Laura is an average user of technology. She spends a lot of time answering emails and using a reference tracking system. She is not intimidated by technology but typically only uses what she finds easy and necessary. She doesn’t have time to learn a lot of new systems or languages.

Commit message:

adds researcher followup and citation pain points, fixes #71

personas/public-services-librarian.md, after:

# Laura Kozlowski

_Public Services Librarian_

![persona image](img/laura-kozlowski.jpg)

## Background

Laura works as a public services librarian for special collections at a large academic library in California. In addition to running the reading room, she also coordinates exhibits, events and other outreach activities using primary source materials from her institution’s collections. In her mid 30’s, she is recently married and has a pet dog named Chico.

## Goals and Motivations

Laura is motivated by the needs of her patrons, and she loves to connect people with information. Although she likes answering people’s questions, she enjoys teaching them how to find the answer for themselves even more. She also wants to make sure that the privacy of her patrons is protected and that archival material in the reading room is not damaged or misplaced. In addition, she wants to create interesting exhibits and programming that will bring more researchers to visit the special collections. When material is restricted due to donor agreements, she wants to make sure those restrictions are enforced consistently and equitably.

## Needs

In order to meet her goals, Laura needs excellent search tools for archival material that explain - in a visual manner without large blocks of text - the scope, content, and extent of archival records so that researchers can find the answers to their questions. She wants researchers to be able to search the full text of documents and also to see the context of records creation and maintenance. Additionally, she’d like researchers to have direct access to digital content so that they can download and use those materials in their research, and she’d like researchers to be able to download citations information for archival material to improve the accuracy of citations. She’d also like to be able to restrict access to certain archival material due to donor agreements via password-protected user accounts or some other means.

## Pain Points

One of the biggest headaches for Laura is chasing down citation information for researchers so that they can accurately cite records in publications. She also routinely finds that researchers underestimate the amount of time their research will take because they can’t tell how much material there is to look at. Although she is annoyed by researchers who don’t follow reading room rules, she thinks this is largely the result of unclear and confusing policies and procedures, and she wants to simplify these processes and procedures so that her institution’s staff doesn’t have to deal with the blowback.

## Current Devices, Apps & IT Use

Laura is an average user of technology. She spends a lot of time answering emails and using a reference tracking system. She is not intimidated by technology but typically only uses what she finds easy and necessary. She doesn’t have time to learn a lot of new systems or languages.
