transfer/bagit-specification.md, before:

# Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification
This page describes the Rockefeller Archive Center's BagIt specification, developed with the goal of facilitating consistently structured bags - or packages - of digital records which can be programatically validated and verified.

Donor organizations are responsible for creating bags which comply to this specification and transferring them via agreed-upon protocols and schedules. To assist donors in meeting these requirements, a [bag profile for organizational records](organizational-bag-profile.json) as well as [example Python scripts](example-scripts/) to create and validate bags are available in this repository. Other libraries for this specification are available in languages including [Java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java), [Python](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-python), [PHP](https://github.com/scholarslab/BatItPHP) and [Ruby](https://github.com/topr/bagit).

## Specification
1.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags conform to the [BagIt packaging specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kunze-bagit-14 "BagIt Specification")
2.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags may be
    1.  serialized (single ZIP file)
    2.  un-serialized
3.  All bags must valid according to the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON")

## RAC BagIt Structure
This section includes a simple example of a Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification-compliant bag. Although the Rockefeller Archive Center accepts both serialized and un-serialized bags, this example specifies an unserialized bag.

```
<RAC-BAG-ID>/
    | bagit.txt
    | manifest-md5.txt
    | bag-info.txt
    \--- data/
          | [payload files]
          | metadata.json
```

### Description

###### RAC-BAG-ID
The name of the root directory of the bag.

###### bagit.txt
As required in the BagIt spec. Includes BagIt version and tag file character encoding.

```
BagIt-Version: 0.97
Tag-File-Character-Encoding: UTF-8
```

###### manifest-md5.txt
This is a required element from the BagIt spec that contains a checksum for every item included in the bag's payload. For this example we have chosen `md5`, but `sha256` is also acceptable.

###### bag-info.txt
The Rockefeller Archive Center requires some of the below fields in our specification, and some are reserved BagIt fields as indicated in the **BagIt Specification**. For more details on the content, requirements, and usage of each field, please see the **Bag-Info Field Specification** section at the bottom of this document. The RAC will index metadata from `bag-info.txt` as structured data.

```
Source-Organization
External-Identifier
Internal-Sender-Description
Title
Date-Start
Date-End
Record-Creators
Record-Type
Language
Restrictions
Bagging-Date
Bag-Count
Bag-Group-Identifier
Payload-Oxum
BagIt-Profile-Identifier
```

###### data
Required directory for payload items. This directory may be serialized as a single file (for example a ZIP file), or un-serialized as a number of files and subdirectories.

###### metadata.json
Valid JSON or JSON-LD file that includes metadata elements included in bag-info.txt as well as any additional elements donors wish to provide to the RAC.

---

## Bag-Info Field Specifications

### Source-Organization

*   **Definition:** The organization responsible for sending the content.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to the Rockefeller Archive Center about the organization sending the records.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON") for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Asian Cultural Council"
    *   "Ford Foundation"
    *   "Social Science Research Council"

### External-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier applied to each group of records composed of characters, numbers or letters, or a combination thereof, that uniquely identify the record within a given domain.
*   **Purpose:** Ensures that records can be uniquely identified within the Rockefeller Archive Center's systems during archival processes.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "OyGpXmSFVkCpds7i4gRv"
    *   "Grant2561"

### Internal-Sender-Description

*   **Definition:** A prose description of the nature and contents of the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Aids user discovery by providing description about the content and context of records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual reports discussing the accomplishments and major strategic initiatives of the Ford Foundation."
    *   "Board reports from all Russell Sage Foundation board meetings."

### Title

*   **Definition:** The title of a group of records. Do not include dates in the title element. This should not be a description of the type of materials, but instead a declarative title for all of the records in the bag.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual Reports"
    *   "Grant Records"

### Date-Start

*   **Definition:** The earliest date on which records in the bag were created.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1995-01-01"
    *   "2002"

### Date-End

*   **Definition:** The latest date on which records in the transfer were created. Use only if this value differs from `Date-Start`.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required for date ranges
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1997-12-31"

### Record-Creators

*   **Definition:** Identifies the individuals, organizations or departments that created the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Provides evidence and context for records by identifying the creator of the record and supports user search, allowing information to be filtered.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Rockefeller Brothers Fund Communications Office"
    *   "Shah, Rajiv"

### Record-Type

*   **Definition:** The broad category into which the records fall.
*   **Purpose:** Allows records to be staged appropriately for archival processes and facilitates the appropriate application of embargo periods, which vary by record type.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON") for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "annual reports"
    *   "grant records"

### Languages

*   **Definition:** The natural language(s) in which the materials are written.
*   **Purpose:** Assists user evaluation of relevance and facilitates machine translation.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 639-2: Codes for the Representation of Names of Languages_. Use URIs linking directly to the language code. If materials have no language, please use "nil"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-2/eng"
    *   "http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-2/spa"

### Restrictions

*   **Definition:** Any restrictions related specifically to the group of records in the bag. Do not record general restrictions related to all records (or record types) from a given person or organization.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to users about the availability of records, and assists archivists in responsibly providing access to records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "The annual report for 1996 might have IP restrictions due to photographs for which the Ford Foundation does not own copyright."

### Bagging-Date

*   **Definition:** Date that the content was prepared for delivery.
*   **Puropose:** Provides the date the bag was created to ensure authenticity.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "2016-04-24"

### Bag-Count

*   **Definition:** Two numbers separated by 'of', in particular, 'N of T', where T is the total number of bags in a group of bags and N is the ordinal number within the group; if T is not known, specify it as '?' (question mark).
*   **Purpose:** Allows donors to split large bags into multiple parts that can be reassembled later.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1 of 2"
    *   "4 of 4"
    *   "3 of ?"

### Bag-Group-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier for the entire set of bags to which this bag belongs.
*   **Purpose:** Provide an identifier to logically group multi-bag transfers.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "xOmy5"
    *   "AnnualReports"
    *   "Group1"

### Payload-Oxum

*   **Definition:** The "octetstream sum" of the payload, namely, a two-part number of the form `OctetCount.StreamCount`, where OctetCount is the total number of octets (8-bit bytes) across all payload file content and StreamCount is the total number of payload files. Payload-Oxum should be included in `bag-info.txt` if at all possible.
*   **Purpose:** Payload-Oxum is intended for machine consumption.
*   **Data type:** OctetCount.StreamCount
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "279164409832.1198"

### BagIt-Profile-Identifier

*   **Definition:** An HTTP URI that
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled, temporary URL: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/master/transfer/organizational-bag-profile.json"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "https://standards.rockarch.org/bagit/organizational-bag-profile.json"
    *   "http://rockarch.org/bagitprofiles/bag-profile.json"

Commit message:

Add language about acronyms
Add language discouraging acronyms to baginfo.txt section

transfer/bagit-specification.md, after:

# Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification
This page describes the Rockefeller Archive Center's BagIt specification, developed with the goal of facilitating consistently structured bags - or packages - of digital records which can be programatically validated and verified.

Donor organizations are responsible for creating bags which comply to this specification and transferring them via agreed-upon protocols and schedules. To assist donors in meeting these requirements, a [bag profile for organizational records](organizational-bag-profile.json) as well as [example Python scripts](example-scripts/) to create and validate bags are available in this repository. Other libraries for this specification are available in languages including [Java](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-java), [Python](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-python), [PHP](https://github.com/scholarslab/BatItPHP) and [Ruby](https://github.com/topr/bagit).

## Specification
1.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags conform to the [BagIt packaging specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kunze-bagit-14 "BagIt Specification")
2.  Rockefeller Archive Center bags may be
    1.  serialized (single ZIP file)
    2.  un-serialized
3.  All bags must valid according to the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON")

## RAC BagIt Structure
This section includes a simple example of a Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt Specification-compliant bag. Although the Rockefeller Archive Center accepts both serialized and un-serialized bags, this example specifies an unserialized bag.

```
<RAC-BAG-ID>/
    | bagit.txt
    | manifest-md5.txt
    | bag-info.txt
    \--- data/
          | [payload files]
          | metadata.json
```

### Description

###### RAC-BAG-ID
The name of the root directory of the bag.

###### bagit.txt
As required in the BagIt spec. Includes BagIt version and tag file character encoding.

```
BagIt-Version: 0.97
Tag-File-Character-Encoding: UTF-8
```

###### manifest-md5.txt
This is a required element from the BagIt spec that contains a checksum for every item included in the bag's payload. For this example we have chosen `md5`, but `sha256` is also acceptable.

###### bag-info.txt
The Rockefeller Archive Center requires some of the below fields in our specification, and some are reserved BagIt fields as indicated in the **BagIt Specification**. For more details on the content, requirements, and usage of each field, please see the **Bag-Info Field Specification** section at the bottom of this document. The RAC will index metadata from `bag-info.txt` as structured data. Please use standardized names and avoid the use of all acronyms as separate stakeholders may share the same acronyms but they may mean different things.

```
Source-Organization
External-Identifier
Internal-Sender-Description
Title
Date-Start
Date-End
Record-Creators
Record-Type
Language
Restrictions
Bagging-Date
Bag-Count
Bag-Group-Identifier
Payload-Oxum
BagIt-Profile-Identifier
```

###### data
Required directory for payload items. This directory may be serialized as a single file (for example a ZIP file), or un-serialized as a number of files and subdirectories.

###### metadata.json
Valid JSON or JSON-LD file that includes metadata elements included in bag-info.txt as well as any additional elements donors wish to provide to the RAC.

---

## Bag-Info Field Specifications

### Source-Organization

*   **Definition:** The organization responsible for sending the content.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to the Rockefeller Archive Center about the organization sending the records.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON") for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Asian Cultural Council"
    *   "Ford Foundation"
    *   "Social Science Research Council"

### External-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier applied to each group of records composed of characters, numbers or letters, or a combination thereof, that uniquely identify the record within a given domain.
*   **Purpose:** Ensures that records can be uniquely identified within the Rockefeller Archive Center's systems during archival processes.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "OyGpXmSFVkCpds7i4gRv"
    *   "Grant2561"

### Internal-Sender-Description

*   **Definition:** A prose description of the nature and contents of the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Aids user discovery by providing description about the content and context of records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual reports discussing the accomplishments and major strategic initiatives of the Ford Foundation."
    *   "Board reports from all Russell Sage Foundation board meetings."

### Title

*   **Definition:** The title of a group of records. Do not include dates in the title element. This should not be a description of the type of materials, but instead a declarative title for all of the records in the bag.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Annual Reports"
    *   "Grant Records"

### Date-Start

*   **Definition:** The earliest date on which records in the bag were created.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1995-01-01"
    *   "2002"

### Date-End

*   **Definition:** The latest date on which records in the transfer were created. Use only if this value differs from `Date-Start`.
*   **Purpose:** Enables information search and discovery, facilitates user choice and provides additional context for archival records.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required for date ranges
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1997-12-31"

### Record-Creators

*   **Definition:** Identifies the individuals, organizations or departments that created the group of records.
*   **Purpose:** Provides evidence and context for records by identifying the creator of the record and supports user search, allowing information to be filtered.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "Rockefeller Brothers Fund Communications Office"
    *   "Shah, Rajiv"

### Record-Type

*   **Definition:** The broad category into which the records fall.
*   **Purpose:** Allows records to be staged appropriately for archival processes and facilitates the appropriate application of embargo periods, which vary by record type.
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled. See the [Rockefeller Archive Center BagIt profile](https://github.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/blob/master/transfer/bagit_spec.json "RAC BagIt JSON") for acceptable values.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "annual reports"
    *   "grant records"

### Languages

*   **Definition:** The natural language(s) in which the materials are written.
*   **Purpose:** Assists user evaluation of relevance and facilitates machine translation.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 639-2: Codes for the Representation of Names of Languages_. Use URIs linking directly to the language code. If materials have no language, please use "nil"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** Yes
*   **Examples:**
    *   "http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-2/eng"
    *   "http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-2/spa"

### Restrictions

*   **Definition:** Any restrictions related specifically to the group of records in the bag. Do not record general restrictions related to all records (or record types) from a given person or organization.
*   **Purpose:** Provides information to users about the availability of records, and assists archivists in responsibly providing access to records.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "The annual report for 1996 might have IP restrictions due to photographs for which the Ford Foundation does not own copyright."

### Bagging-Date

*   **Definition:** Date that the content was prepared for delivery.
*   **Puropose:** Provides the date the bag was created to ensure authenticity.
*   **Data type:** Values must meet _ISO 8601: Standard for Representation of Dates and Times_.
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "2016-04-24"

### Bag-Count

*   **Definition:** Two numbers separated by 'of', in particular, 'N of T', where T is the total number of bags in a group of bags and N is the ordinal number within the group; if T is not known, specify it as '?' (question mark).
*   **Purpose:** Allows donors to split large bags into multiple parts that can be reassembled later.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "1 of 2"
    *   "4 of 4"
    *   "3 of ?"

### Bag-Group-Identifier

*   **Definition:** A unique identifier for the entire set of bags to which this bag belongs.
*   **Purpose:** Provide an identifier to logically group multi-bag transfers.
*   **Data type:** String
*   **Obligation:** Optional
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "xOmy5"
    *   "AnnualReports"
    *   "Group1"

### Payload-Oxum

*   **Definition:** The "octetstream sum" of the payload, namely, a two-part number of the form `OctetCount.StreamCount`, where OctetCount is the total number of octets (8-bit bytes) across all payload file content and StreamCount is the total number of payload files. Payload-Oxum should be included in `bag-info.txt` if at all possible.
*   **Purpose:** Payload-Oxum is intended for machine consumption.
*   **Data type:** OctetCount.StreamCount
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "279164409832.1198"

### BagIt-Profile-Identifier

*   **Definition:** An HTTP URI that
*   **Data type:** Locally controlled, temporary URL: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RockefellerArchiveCenter/project_electron/master/transfer/organizational-bag-profile.json"
*   **Obligation:** Required
*   **Repeatability:** No
*   **Examples:**
    *   "https://standards.rockarch.org/bagit/organizational-bag-profile.json"
    *   "http://rockarch.org/bagitprofiles/bag-profile.json"
