docs/Milestones.md, before:

# Project Electron Milestones

Revised December 2017

## Discovery

September 2016-September 2018

### Web presence - September 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Create a website to serve as a central clearinghouse for project updates, documentation contact information and other materials.

### Communication plan - October 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify key stakeholders - both internal and external - and develop a plan for communicating project status to them, including formal and informal reporting, presentations, and social media strategy.

### Gather user stories from donor organizations, RAC staff, allied professionals and researchers - November/December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify stakeholder donor organizations with a range of technical infrastructure and support, develop conversation guidelines and interview to determine user stories for ingest and access of digital records.

### Review and reorganize existing user stories - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Review user stories created for DAMS project and determine which are in scope and which are out of scope, then organize according to archival functions.

### Develop personas - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop user personas to help guide design and development decisions for all aspects of Project Electron.

### Determine licensing strategy - September 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Determine appropriate means of placing documentation under version control and making it as widely available as possible with clear licensing. Solution will likely require multiple licensing and permissions options. Use MIT license as default.

### Archivematica integration strategy - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop overall strategy for using Archivematica in ingest processes.

### User Scenarios - September 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)


Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - September 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)


Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure deliverables match requirements.

## Archival Storage Implementation

January 2017 - June 2017

### Develop repository requirements - March 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Based on user stories and personas, develop requirements for repository

### Determine Minimum Viable Product and subsequent development for repository - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Determine a baseline for repository product and identify further development priorities.

### Identify 2-3 possible solutions - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify a small number of potential storage solutions based on requirements.

### Install and test storage solutions - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Look for and set up test installs of potential repository solutions and develop a report with pros and cons.

### Select storage solution - June 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Using the potential solutions report, requirements and personas, select a repository solution.

### Storage installation - June 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Install selected repository solution in deployment environment.

### Repository customization - TBD, based on customizations necessary ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Customize repository based on functional requirements so it meets minimum viable product baseline.

## Transfer from Donors to RAC

January 2017 - September 2017

### Evaluate Donor/Depositor Capacity - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop strawperson transfer architecture and requirements. Determine MVP and subsequent development (will likely depend on technical capacity/organization size).

### Donor/Depositor Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop complete requirements for donor and depositor organizations so that they can implement the necessary tools and services to transfer records to RAC temporary storage. This should include example transfers based on data from a number of organizations which illustrate various options.

### Temporary Storage Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop requirements for temporary “staging” storage.

### Post-Transfer Service Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop firm requirements for post transfer services including but not limited to virus checking, validation and fixity testing.

### Test Transfer Process - September/October 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Test transfers with select donor/depositor organizations

## Appraisal/Accessioning

September 2017 - May 2018

### User Scenarios - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for the following project components:
- Extend the existing transfer application to support archival appraisal and accessioning functions.
- Systems integrations with Archivematica, ArchivesSpace and Fedora.

### Hackathon - October 11, 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Collaborative hackathon to kick off development of appraisal and accessioning functionality.

### Integrations - November 2017-March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Build out integrations with existing systems and tools, including Archivematica, ArchivesSpace and Fedora, and develop processes such as:
- Bundling transfers and other information into a Submission Information Package suitable for ingest into Archivematica.
- Compiling files (bitstreams) and metadata from Archivematica and ArchivesSpace, structuring them according to RAC data models and storing them in Fedora.
- Assigning default rights statements for a given organization to a transfer as well as providing a short list of common rights statements that can be added to transfers.

### Hackathon - January/February 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Collaborative hackathon to kick off development of integrations and bundling processes.

### QA Testing - April 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.

## Arrangement & Description

March 2018 - June 2018

### User Scenarios - March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for an ArchivesSpace integration. Research tools to help processing archivists describe born-digital records.

### Integrations - April - May 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Specify and build out integrations with existing systems and tools, including ArchivesSpace. This likely includes data mapping between ArchivesSpace and Fedora data models.

### QA Testing - June 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.

## Preservation Services

June 2018 - September 2018
### User Scenarios - June 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - June 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for the following project components:
- Native Fedora services (for example, fixity checks) as well as services external to Fedora (for example file format reports).

Fedora is already installed on Marist’s infrastructure, and version updates have been automated to the extent possible.

### Integrations - August 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Specify and build out integrations with Fedora and other preservation services.

### QA Testing - September 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.


## Data modeling

April 2017 - September 2018

Model archival description to support functional requirements and use cases, using Portland Common Data Model and other community-driven projects as a basis.

### Develop Data Modeling Bibliography - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Research practices and examples of data models and produce annotated bibliography.

### RAC Staff Data Modeling Exercise - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Engage select RAC staff in data modeling exercises to learn from domain expertise and encourage computational thinking.

### Initial Draft of Data Model - October 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)
Determine what objects we need to model and draft initial models.

## Rights and Restrictions

October 2017 - September 2018

Related to a number of archival functions, this area of development would allow for default PREMIS rights statements detailing access and use restrictions to be automatically applied to transfers from a given organization. It would also allow users to select and apply additional rights statements to transfers via the transfer application.

### Create Default PREMIS Rights Statements - December 2017 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create PREMIS rights statements that represent our agreements with the initial set of donor organizations interviewed during the discovery phase of Project Electron.


## Service Level Agreement ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Create a service level agreement to govern maintenance of repository.

Commit message:

add usability testing milestones (#43)
* add usability testing milestones

* update revision date

docs/Milestones.md, after:

# Project Electron Milestones

Revised February 2018

## Discovery

September 2016-September 2018

### Web presence - September 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Create a website to serve as a central clearinghouse for project updates, documentation contact information and other materials.

### Communication plan - October 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify key stakeholders - both internal and external - and develop a plan for communicating project status to them, including formal and informal reporting, presentations, and social media strategy.

### Gather user stories from donor organizations, RAC staff, allied professionals and researchers - November/December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify stakeholder donor organizations with a range of technical infrastructure and support, develop conversation guidelines and interview to determine user stories for ingest and access of digital records.

### Review and reorganize existing user stories - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Review user stories created for DAMS project and determine which are in scope and which are out of scope, then organize according to archival functions.

### Develop personas - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop user personas to help guide design and development decisions for all aspects of Project Electron.

### Determine licensing strategy - September 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Determine appropriate means of placing documentation under version control and making it as widely available as possible with clear licensing. Solution will likely require multiple licensing and permissions options. Use MIT license as default.

### Archivematica integration strategy - December 2016 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop overall strategy for using Archivematica in ingest processes.

### User Scenarios - September 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)


Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - September 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)


Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure deliverables match requirements.

## Archival Storage Implementation

January 2017 - June 2017

### Develop repository requirements - March 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Based on user stories and personas, develop requirements for repository

### Determine Minimum Viable Product and subsequent development for repository - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Determine a baseline for repository product and identify further development priorities.

### Identify 2-3 possible solutions - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Identify a small number of potential storage solutions based on requirements.

### Install and test storage solutions - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Look for and set up test installs of potential repository solutions and develop a report with pros and cons.

### Select storage solution - June 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Using the potential solutions report, requirements and personas, select a repository solution.

### Storage installation - June 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Install selected repository solution in deployment environment.

### Repository customization - TBD, based on customizations necessary ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Customize repository based on functional requirements so it meets minimum viable product baseline.

## Transfer from Donors to RAC

January 2017 - September 2017

### Evaluate Donor/Depositor Capacity - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop strawperson transfer architecture and requirements. Determine MVP and subsequent development (will likely depend on technical capacity/organization size).

### Donor/Depositor Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop complete requirements for donor and depositor organizations so that they can implement the necessary tools and services to transfer records to RAC temporary storage. This should include example transfers based on data from a number of organizations which illustrate various options.

### Temporary Storage Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop requirements for temporary “staging” storage.

### Post-Transfer Service Requirements - May 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop firm requirements for post transfer services including but not limited to virus checking, validation and fixity testing.

### Test Transfer Process - September/October 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Test transfers with select donor/depositor organizations

## Appraisal/Accessioning

September 2017 - May 2018

### User Scenarios - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for the following project components:
- Extend the existing transfer application to support archival appraisal and accessioning functions.
- Systems integrations with Archivematica, ArchivesSpace and Fedora.

### Hackathon - October 11, 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Collaborative hackathon to kick off development of appraisal and accessioning functionality.

### Integrations - November 2017-March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Build out integrations with existing systems and tools, including Archivematica, ArchivesSpace and Fedora, and develop processes such as:
- Bundling transfers and other information into a Submission Information Package suitable for ingest into Archivematica.
- Compiling files (bitstreams) and metadata from Archivematica and ArchivesSpace, structuring them according to RAC data models and storing them in Fedora.
- Assigning default rights statements for a given organization to a transfer as well as providing a short list of common rights statements that can be added to transfers.

### Hackathon - January/February 2018 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Collaborative hackathon to kick off development of integrations and bundling processes.

### QA Testing - April 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.

## Arrangement & Description

March 2018 - June 2018

### User Scenarios - March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - March 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for an ArchivesSpace integration. Research tools to help processing archivists describe born-digital records.

### Integrations - April - May 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Specify and build out integrations with existing systems and tools, including ArchivesSpace. This likely includes data mapping between ArchivesSpace and Fedora data models.

### QA Testing - June 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.

## Preservation Services

June 2018 - September 2018
### User Scenarios - June 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create user scenarios based on Project Electron personas and local expertise.

### Functional Requirements and QA Tests - June 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Develop functional requirements and create structured tests to ensure development matches requirements for the following project components:
- Native Fedora services (for example, fixity checks) as well as services external to Fedora (for example file format reports).

Fedora is already installed on Marist’s infrastructure, and version updates have been automated to the extent possible.

### Integrations - August 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Specify and build out integrations with Fedora and other preservation services.

### QA Testing - September 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Test new development and integrations using automated or manual QA tests.


## Data modeling

April 2017 - September 2018

Model archival description to support functional requirements and use cases, using Portland Common Data Model and other community-driven projects as a basis.

### Develop Data Modeling Bibliography - April 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Research practices and examples of data models and produce annotated bibliography.

### RAC Staff Data Modeling Exercise - September 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Engage select RAC staff in data modeling exercises to learn from domain expertise and encourage computational thinking.

### Initial Draft of Data Model - October 2017 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)
Determine what objects we need to model and draft initial models.

## Rights and Restrictions

October 2017 - September 2018

Related to a number of archival functions, this area of development would allow for default PREMIS rights statements detailing access and use restrictions to be automatically applied to transfers from a given organization. It would also allow users to select and apply additional rights statements to transfers via the transfer application.

### Create Default PREMIS Rights Statements - December 2017 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create PREMIS rights statements that represent our agreements with the initial set of donor organizations interviewed during the discovery phase of Project Electron.

## Usability Testing

January - September 2018

### Usability Test Script - January 2018 ![complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-complete-green.svg?style=flat-square)

Create a script for standardized usability testing of the transfer application user interface.

### User Tasks - February - September 2018 ![in progress](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-in--progress-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

Create tasks based on user scenarios that facilitate the targeted usability testing of the features and functions of the transfer application. Add and revise tasks to adapt to design iteration.

### Usability Testing - February - September 2018 ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Conduct iterative usability testing of the transfer application with RAC staff. Report problems identified in testing and recommend design solutions. Repeat testing periodically as new features are introduced during application development.    

## Service Level Agreement ![not yet started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not--yet--started-red.svg?style=flat-square)

Create a service level agreement to govern maintenance of repository.
